# ardrum

ardrum is an electronic drum DIY project using arduino and pure data

Quickstart:
 * it involves connecting at least some cables between several pieces of electronics
 * so, quick this not is.
 * this combination of hard- and software was developed on a unix system and runs
	on linux and osx. windows has not been tested.

Hardware Quickstart:
 * README.hardware explains the hardware part

Software Quickstart:
 * edit ardrum.ino to adapt your controllers to the arduino/multiplexer pins
 * compile and upload into arduino
 * connect input sources
 * start pure data patch
 * README.software explains the software part


Design Info:

this project is using diy equipment to provide an electronic drumset kit that
utilises the audio synthesis capabilities of pure data together with an arduino
microcontroller for input and communication.

ardrum gives a framework for building a diy drumset. the actual hardware can be
anything with a piezo, switch or similar sensor attached. up to 16 sensors can
be connected to trigger and influence sound synthesis.

this is WIP and will require some configuration to let the involved components
talk to each other. it also requires some effort to build the necessary hardware
although it can also be easily adapted to use a midi controller in which case half
of the software would not need to be used.

general flow of communication:

piezos/switches -> multiplexer -> arduino -> pure data -> synthesis patches or samples -> audio out.

the arduino sketch uses a mapping from any controller number to the desired values in pure data. the
connected hardware can be adjusted in ardrum.ino.

the pure data patch uses a subpatch that collects the information sent by the arduino and distributes
the incoming controller values to different sound generating patches. while this could be done using
firmata, it is a patch that also controls the attached multiplexer without using communication on the
data "bus".


(c) 2011-2038 wotwot

license: cc-by-nc-sa
parts (c) by others

